MLOps definition - add examples for add't clarity (#53)
cdfoundation/sig-mlops: roadmap/2022/MLOpsRoadmap2022.md

### What is MLOps?

> MLOps is often narrowly defined as:

Reviewer: Love this edit, much simpler IMO

>*The ability to apply DevOps principles to Machine Learning applications.*

This narrow definition misses the true value of MLOps to the data scientist and engineers supporting data scientists.

MLOps should be viewed as a practice for consistently managing the ML aspects of products in a way that is unified with all of the other technical and non-technical elements necessary to successfully commercialise those products with maximum potential for viability in the marketplace. 

Accordingly, we believe a better definition of MLOps is:
> *The extension of the DevOps methodology to include Machine Learning and Data Science Assets and the interdependencies between those Assets as first class citizens within the DevOps ecology.*

Some ML & DS Assets require new extensions to DevOps practices:
* Features [1]
* Trained Models [2]

Some ML & DS Assets can be handled by existing software DevOps practices, but must be linkable to the other ML Assets
* Model Servers [3]

> * Model Training Pipelines [4]

Reviewer: I think that pipelines and model servers are not assets but procedures, and their artifacts are the  assets

Author: Curious to hear more on why they are procedures?  I was thinking the code/docker containers/etc + the link to the needed (or geneated) Features + Trained Models are included in each of these as the assets...

> 

Reviewer: I suggest we'll mention that these new resources should obviously be linked to lower-level DevOps resources such as computing, storage, etc.

> MLOps must have first-class integration with existing DataOps processes since well-performing machine learning relies on complete, consistent, semantically valid, correct, timely, and unbiased **Input Data**.  Without this clean, accurate data, ML solutions can be problematic or lead to flawed outcomes that exacerbate biases.

Reviewer: As an extension for DevOps, MLOps should also have integration with existing DevOps tooling

Author: I agree, I think this is covered by "/The extension of the DevOps methodology to include Machine Learning and Data Science Assets and the interdependencies between those Assets as first class citizens within the DevOps ecology./ "

earlier in the doc.  WDYT?

 
> **MLOps is not to be confused with "AIOps".** AIOps often means an application of AI technologies to help improve the effectiveness of IT or Cloud operations (e.g., AI-based monitoring of logs, etc). This term is still evolving, but for the purposes of this document, we do include AIOps as defined here. Adding to the confusion is that some organisations are more comfortable with the designation 'AI' rather than 'Machine Learning' and thus call their internal 'MLOps" as 'AIOps'. 

### What is MLOps not?

It sometimes helps to consider what anti-patterns exist around a concept in order to better understand it.

**1. MLOps is not "putting Jupyter Notebooks into production environments".**

Rapid Application Development (RAD) tools like Jupyter Notebooks can be extremely useful, both in classroom environments and in exploring problem spaces to understand potential approaches to mathematical problems. However, like all RAD tools, they achieve the rapid element of their name by trading off other key non-functional requirements like maintainability, testability and scalability.  

> **2. MLOps is not a purely technical or infrastructure solution**

Reviewer: I don't agree with this statement. IMO:
> MLOps != ML Infra

As DevOps != Dev Infra (i.e. Kafka and K8s are not sitting under the same category). Although some VCs are confusing between these two subjects, they're not the same.

Reviewer: hmm... maybe I understood it wrong? if so - the title is a bit confusing

Author: Are you referring to line 81 or line 78-79?

> MLOps, similar to DevOps, includes a combination of enabling technology and infrastructure, but also requires people-based processes to be successfully implemented.

Reviewer: Should be "MLOps, *as an extension* to DevOps, ...."

Author: ```suggestion
MLOps, as an extension to DevOps, includes a combination of enabling technology and infrastructure, but also requires people-based processes to be successfully implemented.

```
